src/articles/Credo.md, before:

<blockquote>
The unexamined life is not worth living - Socrates
</blockquote>

The word credo originates from Middle English Latin, in which the word means 'I believe'. The word creed has similar roots and refers to a system of religious beliefs or a faith. 'Credo' refers to a statement of beliefs or aims which guides someone's actions.

While I understand the pivotal role that religion plays in the lives of many, stricken by their faiths and gods, I've never been a particularly religious person. Perhaps there is a higher entity that governs the whims of the universe, but that is beyond the comprehension of us mortal beings. So, I leave it at that and that is the extent of my belief in the supernatural.

But I do have a strong belief system that governs my actions on a daily basis. This system is my truth. It is the way I perceive the world. We each have our own. A system that evolves for each of us over the entire course of our lives. Sometimes faster, sometimes slower. Up until the age of 23, I was constantly gathering wisdom from those around me. I consider myself fortunate to have met the erudite mentors and peers that I have had in life. My beliefs constantly fluctuated but this was a journey that had to pan out in its own time and there would be no rushing it.

2018 was an interesting year in my life. It was in January of that year that I decided to forge my beliefs based on my experiences thus far, leading up to that moment. At the time, I was reading a number of books which granularly coalesced my beliefs into principles of concrete substance. The core of which were -

- [Outliers: The Story of Success by Malcolm Gladwell](https://www.amazon.in/Outliers-Story-Success-Malcolm-Gladwell/dp/0141036257/ref=sr_1_1?crid=1RGCGJ0BJCTAF&keywords=outliers+by+malcolm+gladwell&qid=1560279635&s=books&sprefix=outlier%2Cstripbooks%2C330&sr=1-1)
- [Elon Musk: How the billionaire CEO of SpaceX and Tesla is shaping our future by Ashlee Vance](https://www.amazon.in/Elon-Musk-Billionaire-Spacex-Shaping/dp/0753555638?tag=googinhydr18418-21&tag=googinkenshoo-21&ascsubtag=_k_EAIaIQobChMI8-LuuY7i4gIVzbWWCh2K2gAvEAYYASABEgKYrfD_BwE_k_&gclid=EAIaIQobChMI8-LuuY7i4gIVzbWWCh2K2gAvEAYYASABEgKYrfD_BwE)
- [Thinking, Fast and Slow by Daniel Kahneman](https://www.amazon.in/Thinking-Fast-Penguin-Press-Non-Fiction/dp/0141033576/ref=sr_1_2?adgrpid=60619154524&gclid=EAIaIQobChMI47enuI7i4gIVWaqWCh2xRQHdEAAYAiAAEgJixvD_BwE&hvadid=294110236692&hvdev=c&hvlocphy=1007768&hvnetw=g&hvpos=1t2&hvqmt=b&hvrand=13484501459992230175&hvtargid=kwd-326433336924&hydadcr=23636_1725033)
- [The Lean Startup by Eric Ries](https://www.amazon.in/Lean-Startup-Innovation-Successful-Businesses/dp/0670921602?tag=googinhydr18418-21&tag=googinkenshoo-21&ascsubtag=_k_EAIaIQobChMIqP-IvcTu4gIVwYBwCh3YbQldEAYYASABEgIsyfD_BwE_k_&gclid=EAIaIQobChMIqP-IvcTu4gIVwYBwCh3YbQldEAYYASABEgIsyfD_BwE)
- [Predictably Irrational: The Hidden forces that Shape our Decisions](https://www.amazon.in/Predictably-Irrational-Hidden-Forces-Decisions/dp/0007368542/ref=sr_1_6?adgrpid=60619154524&gclid=EAIaIQobChMI47enuI7i4gIVWaqWCh2xRQHdEAAYAiAAEgJixvD_BwE&hvadid=294110236692&hvdev=c&hvlocphy=1007768&hvnetw=g&hvpos=1t2&hvqmt=b&hvrand=13484501459992230175&hvtargid=kwd-326433336924&hydadcr=23636_1725033&keywords=thinking+fast+slow&qid=1560279737&s=gateway&sr=8-6)
- [Learning How to Learn by Barbara Oakley and Terrence Sejnowski](https://www.coursera.org/learn/learning-how-to-learn)

Through my readings (and several re-readings) of these books, I had put together my core beliefs which hasn't changed much since, barring a few natural tweaks that stemmed from learnings. This page summarizes the bible I live by and is my record of continuing to fervently stick to its beliefs while keeping an open mind to criticism & change from those around me.

Commit message:

Added more credo - bill joys story from outliers

src/articles/Credo.md, after:

### The unexamined life is a life not worth living - Socrates

The word credo originates from Middle English Latin, in which the word means 'I believe'. The word creed has similar roots and refers to a system of religious beliefs or a faith. 'Credo' refers to a statement of beliefs or aims which guides someone's actions.

While I understand the pivotal role that religion plays in the lives of many, stricken by their faiths and gods, I've never been a particularly religious person. Perhaps there is a higher entity that governs the whims of the universe, but that is beyond the comprehension of us mortal beings. So, I leave it at that and that is the extent of my belief in the supernatural.

But I do have a strong belief system that governs my actions on a daily basis. This system is my truth. It is the way I perceive the world. We each have our own. A system that evolves for each of us over the entire course of our lives. Sometimes faster, sometimes slower. Up until the age of 23, I was constantly gathering wisdom from those around me. I consider myself fortunate to have met the erudite mentors and peers that I have had in life. My beliefs constantly fluctuated but this was a journey that had to pan out in its own time and there would be no rushing it.

2018 was an interesting year in my life. It was in January of that year that I decided to forge my beliefs based on my experiences thus far, leading up to that moment. At the time, I was reading a number of books which granularly coalesced my beliefs into principles of concrete substance. Through my readings (and several re-readings) of these books, I had put together my core beliefs. Unlike the ever fleeting beliefs from my past these remained unchanged. It has undergone a few natural tweaks that stemmed from my discussions of these beliefs with others but I'm convinced in my way of life. This page summarizes the bible I live by and is my record of continuing to fervently stick to its beliefs while keeping an open mind to criticism & change from those around me.

## The 10,000 hour goal and how I sold my soul to the Devil

It has been a year and a half (at the time of writing this) since the creation of this version of my beliefs. A friend of mine who I hadn't met in almost 4 years said that working in a startup had made me soulless. While I do admit that the startup culture and its toxically fervent requirement to HUSTLE ALL THE FREAKIN TIME has played a part in this, I promise you, it goes beyond this.

Outliers by Malcolm Gladwell is a book that has played a pivotal role in my philosophy. Not all chapters in a book are made equal. While there are parts of the book I occasionally skim through to entertain my whims and fancies, the 2nd chapter of the book, titled 'The 10,000 hour rule' is etched into my memory (well, atleast the principles of it are). Gladwell goes on to illustrate his idea with 3 primary stories from the lives of - (1) Bill Joy (2) The Beatles and (3) Bill Gates. If you've read the book feel free to skip the next 3 subsections since they are my abridged recollection of these stories from the book.

![Bill Joy Quotes](https://quotefancy.com/media/wallpaper/3840x2160/3163059-Bill-Joy-Quote-Well-limbo-is-not-a-good-place-to-be.jpg)

### Bill Joy

Bill Joy was a computer programmer who took on the task of rewriting UNIX which is an operating system and his verion of the OS still runs in millions of computers. He cofounded Sun Microsystems and was a major contributor to Java. Often called the Edison of the internet, he is regarded as one of the most influential people in the history of computing. He is an established pioneer but his journey to getting there provides some interesting insights to chew on.

In the early 1970s, at the time when Joy was looking to apply to college, computers were the size of rooms and programming was a tedious endeavour. Computer programs were written using punch cards with the operator processing one task at a time and the tiniest of errors meant you had to rewrite the program and resubmit the punch cards. More than being a test of logical reasoning, it was a test of your patience as a programmer.

It was exactly at this point of time that computers got powerful enough to handle hundreds of tasks in real time through the advent of a concept called time sharing. The school that Joy went to, Michigan, was one of probably only 3 other schools that had these new computers. Joy found his happy place when he accidentally upon a unique opportunity that only a handful in the world got. To program on a time sharing computer. While student time on these machines was limited to a fixed amount of money every student got, he found a bug in the system that let him extend his time without ever getting charged. He spent more time in the Computer Centre than his classes, staying up all night at the Centre.

At Michigan Joy was programming eight or ten hours a day. Programming in earnest by sophomore year. Add in the summers, and his first year at Berkley (where he was a graduate student). By the time he had started writing proficient code, he had accumulated 10,000 hours of practice.
